 
Guidelines for SPRINT 2 REVIEW MEETING 
Unit Testing and Performance Testing 
 
Sprint2 & Teamwork 9 [Testing]  - What students are supposed to use and submit  
The purpose of the meeting is to describe the outcomes of your teamwork activity during the Sprint 2, as well as the 
process, tools and events to reach those outcomes. 
Considerations = 60% Functionality + Unit and Performance Tests 
Unit Testing and Coverage Testing 
 Unit test cases that guarantee a coverage of at least 50% of the code. 
 There should be test cases for the relevant methods, both for the server and the client.  
 There must be at least one test case on the client side that calls the server; in other words, there must be a 
test case to test remoteness (this is an example of integration test). 
 Take care when designing unit test cases. Remember that the best test case is th e one that lets us discover a 
bug. Think about positive and negative tests, branches and loops, exceptions. 
 Log4J/SFL4J must be used. No System.out.println will be accepted. 
VisualVM - Profiling 
 Try to profile the server, so the execution times of the different methods can be displayed. 
 Students must submit/add to their GIT repository a snapshot produced by the VisualVM Profiler. 
Performance Testing 
 The aim is to execute different performance tests on the server, invoking the remote methods. 
 Test, at least, a number of invocations, threads, average and max. Perform at least 2 performance test 
executions: one successful and a failed one. Notice that you may use the results from VisualVM profiling for 
getting an idea about execution times. 
 Remember that you may need to synchronize your methods, when using threads. 
 Perform a test related to throughput (number of operations per second). 
 Perform a test using duration (that will execute a test repeatedly during a certain time). 
 Students must submit/add to their repository the different reports generated by ContiPerf. 
Instructions - ATTENTION 
 Duration.  Every team will have 30 minutes for the presentation  
 ALL members must have a time slot for presenting a part of the teamwork process and results 
 The distribution of topics to speak about is up to the team members. 
Structure of the Sprint 2 Review  
You MUST get ready to explain: 
 Brief explanation about the goal of the Sprint 2 (show Product Backlog and Agile Board). 
 YouTrack – Scrum (Issues, reports about the distribution of tasks, planning process, times, burndown chart) 
 YouTrack – Git. Comments and Commits.   
 Show reports generated by Cobertura, snapshot of VisualVM and Contiperf reports.  
 DEMO of the 2st release. 
 Conclusions about the Sprint 2. Events and Difficulties. 
Next steps ... 
 Create a tag for Release 2; Sprint 2 Restrospective; Sprint 3 Planning Meeting: Product Backlog grooming 
and Sprint 3 Backlog 